=pod

=head3 fontconfig-{infinality}-ultimate

=head4 Font configuration files, patches, scripts and source packages (Infinality & friends)


=head3 Quick installation instructions

B<I. If you are an Arch Linux user, or if you are using one of the Arch Linux derivatives,> you may want to use pre-compiled packages from the [infinality bundle] repository I maintain. This is a recommended approach in a majority of cases as it gives access to the entire functionality offered by Infinality patches and the ultimate configuration without a typical post installation routine. For more information, see:

=over

=item * infinality-bundle user notes U<http://bohoomil.cu.cc/> (general information about infinality-bundle, needs update),

=item * Infinality-bundle+fonts U<https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Infinality-bundle+fonts>` (install notes, troubleshooting)

=item * infinality-bundle: good looking fonts made (even) easier U<https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?id=162098> (official infinality-bundle support thread for Arch Linux users)

=item * infinality-bundle-fonts: a free multilingual font collection for Arch U<https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?id=170976> (official infinality-bundle-fonts support thread)

=back

=begin note

  B<CAUTION>
  Make sure your distribution has been fully updated and is using the most 
  recent libraries as present in the official Arch Linux repositories. 
  Using outdated system components with the bundle is not recommended as it 
  may severely break your system.

=end note

B<II. If you still prefer or have to go the generic way,> i.e. install F<freetype2-infinality> from the AUR, you can use A<fontconfig-infinality-ultimate-git> and build it on your own. The git version may be less stable than the one available in my repository since it is a testing ground for future F<fontconfig-infinality-ultimate> official releases. When you are done with insatllation, you will have to copy custom F<infinality-settings.sh> from F</usr/share/doc/fontconfig-infinality-ultimate-git/freetype> to F</etc/profile.d> and replace the one that came with the non-bundle F<freetype2-infinality>.

B<III. If you are using any Linux distribution but Arch Linux or its derivative,> you can use all available resources here to rebuild F<fontconfig> package available in your distribution. (For pre-2.10.93 versions of stock F<fontconfig>--especially version 2.10.92--check the F<infinality-bundle> branch of this repo for compatible patches.) Building a patched version of F<fontconfig> should be relatively easy: all you will need is appropriate F<src> and F<devel> packages and libraries and your favourite text editor to modify the build script. You can always use Arch's PKGBUILD as a model to follow. If you have questions, please consult your distro's documentation and community.

=begin note

  B<CAUTION*>
  Before installing any patched version F<fontconfig>, backup the whole
  F</etc/fonts> directory in case something goes wrong and you are sure
  it has nothing to do with your local F<fontconfig> configuration, usually 
  available in F<$HOME/.config/fontconfig>. This way you can simply revert
  your setup to its previous state.

=end note

=begin note

  B<NOTE>
  Start troubleshooting by temporarily disabling your local F<fontconfig>
  configuration. It may be possible that your personal configuration overrides
  and interferes with global F<fontconfig> settings.

=end note


Last but not least, don't forget to copy custom F<infinality-settings.sh> from F</usr/share/doc/fontconfig-infinality-ultimate-git/freetype> to F</etc/profile.d> and replace the one that came with the non-bundle F<freetype2-infinality>.

=begin note

  B<NOTE>
  You will need F<freetype2-infinality> version F<2.5.0.1>.

=end note

=head3 Further customization and misc options

=over

=item * Many changes to the global F<fontconfig-ultimate> settings can be introduced on a per-user ground in a local F<$HOME/.config/fontconfig> directory. Please, consult F</usr/share/doc/fontconfig-infinality-ultimate{-git}/fontconfig> for examples and templates you will need to start tweaking.

=item * At the moment, there are two font collections supported by F<fontconfig-infinality-ultimate> out of the box: a free one (activated by default), available for Arch Linux users as easy to install packages, and a proprietary one (Microsoft's fonts supplied with MS Windows and MS Office). In you want to switch between them, use F<fc-presets> script. There is also a F<custom> preset available for highly customized font collections. Configuration files for all the presets are located in F</etc/fonts/conf.avail.infinality/>.

=item * If you are using a desktop environment (KDE, Gnome) that lets you adjust font settings on its own, you can duplicate the base values as found in F</etc/profile.d/infinality-settings.sh>.

=item * All the necessary build scripts can be found in F<infinality-bundle> branch. It should not be a very demanding task to 'translare' them for use in your own Linux distribution.

=back

Z<fontconfig-infinality-ultimate-git: https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/fontconfig-infinality-ultimate-git/>

----

License
.......

The MIT License (MIT) U<http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT>
Copyright (c) 2013 bohoomil

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.

